.. Structure conventions
     # with overline, for parts
     * with overline, for chapters
     = for sections
     - for subsections
     ^ for sub-subsections
     " for paragraphs

******************
Compiler detection
******************

The `common` module provides a set of macros that help in dealing with the
various compilers that may be used to build the software. These macros come in 4
categories:

- `Identification`_
- `Version checking`_
- `Feature testing`_
- `Diagnostics`_
- `Optimization hints`_

Identification
==============

These macros are defined only if the compiler in question is in use (e.g.,
ASAP_MSVC_VERSION is only defined when using the MSVC compiler). When they are
defined, they are defined to the version of the compiler currently in use,
encoded into a single integer.

This provides a uniform way to check the if a specific compiler is in use, as
well as determine the version.

Note that the GCC and GNUC macros are different. Many compilers masquerade as
GCC (by defining __GNUC__, __GNUC_MINOR__, and __GNUC_PATCHLEVEL__, but often do
not implement all the features that the version of GCC they pretend to be
supports. To work around this, the ASAP_GCC_VERSION macro is only defined for
GCC, whereas ASAP_GNUC_VERSION will be defined whenever a compiler defines
__GNUC__.

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_CLANG_VERSION

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_MSVC_VERSION

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_GNUC_VERSION

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_GCC_VERSION

Version checking
================

For each compiler for which there is a ASAP_*_VERSION macro, there is a
ASAP_*_VERSION_CHECK(major,minor,revision) macro. These macros are always
defined, and will return true (1) if the current compiler corresponds to the
macro name, and the compiler version is greater than or equal to the provided
values.

This provides a convenient way to check for features based on the version number.

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_CLANG_VERSION_CHECK

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_MSVC_VERSION_CHECK

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_GNUC_VERSION_CHECK

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_GCC_VERSION_CHECK

Feature testing
===============

`Clang`` introduced an easier way to detect different features which doesn't
rely on knowledge of the version number it first appeared in. Not only is this
the preferred method for checking for features in `clang`, it's pretty much the
only way!

Many clang-based compilers implement these macros, including Apple.
Additionally, some non-clang-based compilers support a subset of the macros.

Attributes
----------

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_HAS_ATTRIBUTE

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_HAS_CPP_ATTRIBUTE


Builtin functions
-----------------

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_HAS_BUILTIN

Features
--------

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_HAS_FEATURE

Diagnostics
===========

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_PRAGMA

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_DIAGNOSTIC_PUSH

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_DIAGNOSTIC_POP

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_HAS_WARNING

Optimization hints
==================

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_ASSUME

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_UNREACHABLE

.. doxygendefine:: ASAP_UNREACHABLE_RETURN
